I want to show you one
really awesome thing before
we're just kind of we're done here.
So let's go to refactoring and have you
ever had a problem where you want to know
how something's changed in
your system over time, right?
It's not that simple, say you have a class
that is used throughout your system and
you just want to see, hey,
how's it been used throughout time?
So a lot of people don't know too much
about get log, get log's fantastic, right?
So anyway, so we do get logged, right and
what you can do is you can actually
provide something called a dash s,
a dash s will search in the commits.
And if the thing you put in
there exists within the diff,
it will capture that commit.
So I'm in a refactoring branch, if you
do not know what we're refactoring it,
it's named after the book by
Martin Fowler, Refactoring.
106 stands for exact function, so
when I do a 106, I can see every single
commit that was related that contained
the numbers 106 inside of it.
So even though there's 153 commits,
I think 157 will now like 158
after the 180, my goodness.
After that last little test commit I did,
I can actually see them and
I can follow a commit.
Is that one line,
is it one line, there we go,
I can just see only the commits that
contain a diff that contains that phrase.
So, if I wanted to go see a say a class,
I'm curious how this one class
has moved throughout our system,
say in the last five commits.
You could just put that class in there and
see all the commits and
walk through each one of them.
And because I use vim by the way, I can
actually use GC log, and I can do this and
then I get it into a quick fix list.
Which looks even better because then I can
just walk through those commits like that.
Now that is like some serious by the way,
right there, all right,
that's pretty fantastic.
So you can actually walk through all
those commits really quickly, so
I want to kind of give you that
Tic Tock style tip right here.
Because I just find this to be super
useful, this search thing, my goodness,
it's just so great, right?
Because sometimes you just
have a weird behavior and
you just kind of want to see how things
have been used and changed over time.
I love doing that, it also gives me
really good perspective into the system.
How it's been used, where it's been
used and why it's being used and
how it's being changed, fun fact
bonus content, all right hand raised
>> That searching the git commit the log
message or the actual commit
>> The actual commit, so look at this one,
this one says refactoring testing, right?
So here let's take off one line,
let's see what do we got here,
this one contains nothing to do
with the word 106, right, nothing.
This is when I included JavaScript
into this refactoring project, so
what we can do is we can we can
check some of these things out.
Let's go, let's open up [INAUDIBLE] just
because it's way cooler to us anyways.
Let's see, let's go and
there we go [INAUDIBLE] JavaScript,
notice that okay,
nothing in here, nothing in here.
But if I search 106,
you'll notice that it actually does it
changes a file in the 106 directory.
And so I believe that is what's causing it
is because there is a 106 right in there.
One of these files are all existing in
some repo named 106 or this right here.
It's one of the two either I've
mentioned it right there or
it's a file being changed with 106.
I can't remember if it's one or the other,
but either way it appeared in the diff,
and so therefore, it's being flagged.
And so for me, that's super cool,
I'm pretty sure it's actually only
the diff here, we can actually just
check right now, man get log dash s.
Look at the difference that changed
the number of currencies in the specified
[INAUDIBLE].
Let's see, yeah, okay, the additions and
deletions, there we go,
it's useful when you're looking for
an exact block of code, right?
And you want to know the history of
that since it first came into being, so
it's like a really cool kind of fun thing.
I just think it's great, I love those,
I love those kind of little tricks,
they feel super sweet.
And every now and
then they will save your bacon and
you just need to note that one time,
right, it's like CPR.
You only need it when you really need it,
and when you really need it,
you're happy to have it